In my professional career,
I thank Jehovah’s Witnesses.
They made a traditional doctor like myself
consider the possibility and importance
of reducing the use of blood.
I believe that you
—not you as people but as a clinical set-up—
have greatly changed my attitude
and thereby also that of my collaborators.
I have lengthy clinical experience
of over 30 years.
And in my clinical experience,
I have never had any such cases
—neither in my experience
as a medical examiner
nor have my colleagues ever had them.
I don’t think it is correct to say
that someone will die
because they didn’t accept blood.
It’s an exceedingly complex situation
and should be considered
on a case-by-case basis.
Blood, anyway, has risks,
so even a transfusion carries
a high level of risk to the patient.
We have to evaluate risks versus benefits.
As a doctor, I believe
that a patient who comes well-prepared
for a surgical operation or to give birth
has a minimal risk.
We can’t exclude it.
But then again, we can’t exclude
a death following a transfusion.